= Install prereuiqists: =
TODO: Find a machine that is a fresh state and remember to list the required libs:

* cmake
* cmake-curses-gui
* libfltk1.3-dev
* libltdl-dev

== Optional Libs ==
* libboost-signals-dev
* libboost-thread-dev

= Build Player =
== Check player from svn: ==
The first thing to do when setting up player to checkout a copy of the source code from svn:
{{{
	svn co http://playerstage.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/playerstage/code/player/trunk/ player-svn
}}}

=== Make a Build Space and Configure the Build System ===
After the code has been checked out cd into the player directory and make a new directory to use a build space:
{{{
	cd player-svn
	mkdir build/
	cd build/
}}}

Player uses CMake to configure the build. CMake, like autoconfig, generates makefiles that are suitable to your system and configuration. Inside of the 'build' directory:
{{{
	ccmake ../
}}}

CCMake prvides the user with a curses-based gui that shows the configuration options and allows users to easily edit them. Press 'c' to generate the default configuration. You might want to edit some of the default configuration variabeles, such as BUILD_DOCUMENTATION and CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX, if you do press 'c' again to regenerate the configuration. Finally, press 'g' to generate the build files and exit.

=== Build the Project ===
Within the build directory, after configuring the build, run 'make' and then if everything goes well 'make install'. You might have to add '<prefix>/lib/pkgconfig' to PKG_CONFIG_PATH. '<prefix>' is wherever player was installed to, by default the prefix is '/usr/local/'

== Configure pkg-config ==
pkg-config is a widely used tool on Linux that allows build systems to easily set the gcc options, such as include files and libraries, used by a framework. However, pkg-config has to know where the information for the libraries is stored using the PKG_CONFIG_PATH environment variable. For example, if you use you home for CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX add the following line to the bottom of your .bashrc file:
{{{
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH="$PKG_CONFIG_PATH:$HOME/lib/pkgconfig"
}}}

=== Configure Library Location ===
TODO: review this
Depending on where you install Player (e.g. if you install it to your $HOME) you might have to configure 'ld' so it knows where to find Player's shared libraries. To test this out run 'player' and if you get this error message
{{{
player: error while loading shared libraries: libplayerdrivers.so.3.1: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
}}}
Than you will have to add the directory that contains the player libraries (e.g. $HOME/lib) to your LD_LIBRARY_PATH.

= Build Stage =
== Requriements ==
According to the [http://rtv.github.com/Stage/install.html Stage manual] you will the following installed before you install Stage:
 *  pkg-config
 *  FLTK 1.1.x
 *  OpenGL
 *  libpng
 *  ltdl (Libtool)

== Clone Stage ==
First of all clone the Stage source code from the git repository:
{{{
	git clone git://github.com/rtv/Stage.git Stage-repo
}}}

== Build and Configure Stage ==
Just like Player, Stage uses 'cmake' to generate make files that you can use to compile the code.
{{{
	cd Stage-repo
	mkdir build
	cd build
	ccmake ../
}}}
As above press 'c' to configure the build and 'g' to generate the build files. If you get a message about WebSim not being installed you can just ignore it by pressing 'e'. Finally run 'make' and 'make install'.

You might get an error about library paths being set to not found. That will happen if you install player to a non-standard location (e.g. $HOME). In that case you need to set CMAKE_INCLUDE_PATH and CMAKE_LIBRARY_PATH to the appropriate locations.
{{{
	export CMAKE_INCLUDE_PATH=$HOME/include
	export CMAKE_LIBRARY_PATH=$HOME/lib
	ccmake ../
}}}

= Install the Corobot software: =
== Getting the software packages ==
To start grab the Corobot software package from:
{{{http://support.coroware.com/downloads/CoroBotLinuxPlayer-4.1.0.zip}}}

Extract the package to a safe location:
{{{
tantalum@3antar:player-corobot$ unzip ~/Downloads/CoroBotLinuxPlayer-4.1.0.zip 
Archive:  /home/tantalum/Downloads/CoroBotLinuxPlayer-4.1.0.zip
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/CoroWare CoroBot EULA.rtf  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Linux User and Reference Guide.pdf  
   creating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/
   creating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/CoroBotPlugin/
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/CoroBotPlugin/corobot.cfg  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/CoroBotPlugin/corobot_comms.cc  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/CoroBotPlugin/corobot_comms.h  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/CoroBotPlugin/corobot_driver.cc  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/CoroBotPlugin/corobot_ptz.cc  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/CoroBotPlugin/corobot_ptz.h  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/CoroBotPlugin/corobotLaser.cfg  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/CoroBotPlugin/Makefile  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/gearbox-9.11.tar.gz  
   creating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/arm.cc  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/battery.cc  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/camera.cc  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/connect.cc  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/drive.cc  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/general.cc  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/gps.cc  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/joystick.cc  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/logo300.jpg  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/Makefile  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/ocu.cc  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/ocu.glade  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/ocu.h  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/player.cc  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/GUI/template.xml  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/Phidgetlinux_2.1.6.20090806.tar.gz  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/player3.0.1cw.tar.gz  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/README  
  inflating: CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Stop final -2.pdf  
}}}

At this point it is probably good to open the 'Linux User and Reference Guide.pdf' and skim over section "8.5 BUILDING SOFTWARE". This is a derivative of whats included in that section.

== Installing Phidgets ==
Back from where ever you extracted the CoroBot software to, cd into the Player directory, extract the Phidgets software package, and cd into the Phidgets directory:
{{{
tantalum@3antar:player-corobot$ cd CoroBot\ Player\ CD\ 4.1/Player/
tantalum@3antar:Player$ ls
CoroBotPlugin        GUI                                 player3.0.1cw.tar.gz
gearbox-9.11.tar.gz  Phidgetlinux_2.1.6.20090806.tar.gz  README
tantalum@3antar:Player$ tar xfz Phidgetlinux_2.1.6.20090806.tar.gz 
tantalum@3antar:Player$ cd Phidgetlinux/phidget21/
}}}

Next build the software with make. It's possible to run just make and Phidgets will be installed in '/usr' or you can override the 'PREFIX' variable to install Phidgets in a different location. For example:
{{{
tantalum@3antar:phidget21$ make PREFIX=$HOME
... SNIP ...
tantalum@3antar:phidget21$ sudo make PREFIX=$HOME install
... SNIP ...
}}}

Note that you have to use 'sudo' when you install phidgets so it can run 'ldconfig' correctly. Since there we only simulating the robot we can skip installing UDev rules for the moment. 

== Build the Corobot Plugin ==
Again from the spot where you extracted the CoroBot software, change into the CoroBot plugin directory 'CoroBot Player CD 4.1/Player/CoroBotPlugin/'. Next run 'make' to build the plugin.

{{{
tantalum@3antar:CoroBotPlugin$ make
g++ -Wall -fpic -g3 `pkg-config --cflags playercore` -c -lphidget21 -L/home/tantalum/lib -I/home/tantalum/include corobot_driver.cc
g++ -Wall -fpic -g3 `pkg-config --cflags playercore` -c -lphidget21 -L/home/tantalum/lib -I/home/tantalum/include corobot_comms.cc
g++ -Wall -fpic -g3 `pkg-config --cflags playercore` -c -lphidget21 -L/home/tantalum/lib -I/home/tantalum/include corobot_ptz.cc
g++ -shared -nostartfiles -o  libcorobotdriver.so corobot_driver.o corobot_comms.o corobot_ptz.o
}}}

The make file is very simple and there is no install target. You might have to edit the 'Makefile' and tell it where Phidgets is installed before the CoroBot plugin will compile. For example I have everthing installed in my $HOME, which made the build fail. To fix this I edited the make file to look like:

{{{
PREFIX=/home/tantalum
CXXFLAGS=-lphidget21 -L$(PREFIX)/lib -I$(PREFIX)/include
all: libcorobotdriver.so

%.o: %.cc
	$(CXX) -Wall -fpic -g3 `pkg-config --cflags playercore` -c $(CXXFLAGS) $<

libcorobotdriver.so: corobot_driver.o corobot_comms.o corobot_ptz.o
	$(CXX) -shared -nostartfiles -o $(CXXFlAGS) $@ $^

clean:
	rm -f *.o *.so
}}}

The way you install the plugin is to simply copy it to the sample place that player installed it's library files to, that is usually '/usr/local/lib/'. In my case it was $HOME, so I ran:
{{{
tantalum@3antar:CoroBotPlugin$ cp libcorobotdriver.so ~/lib64/
}}}

To test that the plugin was properly set up, crate a little '.cfg' with the following contents.
{{{
driver
(
        name "camerauvc"
        provides ["camera:0"]
        port "/dev/video0"
        size [640 480]
)
}}}

Save the file then run player using the that cfg file.
{{{
tantalum@3antar:player_stage$ player corobit_simple.cfg
Registering driver
Player v.3.1.0-svn

* Part of the Player/Stage/Gazebo Project [http://playerstage.sourceforge.net].
* Copyright (C) 2000 - 2009 Brian Gerkey, Richard Vaughan, Andrew Howard,
* Nate Koenig, and contributors. Released under the GNU General Public License.
* Player comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.  This is free software, and you
* are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; see COPYING
* for details.

listening on 6665
Listening on ports: 6665
accepted TCP client 0 on port 6665, fd 8
CameraUvc: Driver initialising
Unable to set format. (-1, 22)
warning : skipping subscription to unknown device blobfinder:0
CameraUvc: Driver initialisation done
closing TCP connection to client 0 on port 6665
CameraUvc: Driver shutting down
CameraUvc: Driver shutdown complete
^CQuitting.
}}}

While player is running open a new command window and run 'playercam'. You might see some errors from 'playercam' but don't worry about that for now. As long as player doesn't complain about not finding the corobot plugin or prasing the condif file everything should be good.
